README.md, before:

geonames-h2
===========

Build a H2 database with the GeoNames data.

## General

The source data can be downloaded from the [GeoNames] (http://download.geonames.org/export/dump/) web site as zipped CSV files.
The fetched data is unzipped and the text files stored in the `./download` directory. The H2 database is created under the local directory `./db`.
The data structure `geonames-h2.tables/table-specs` is a map with the processed data files and the information for creating the database table
for storing the data. Table indexes are also created for more efficient querying.


## Usage

The import can simply be started from the REPL with following steps:

```
> lein repl
> in-ns 'geonames-h2.core
> (create-geonames-db)
```

This will execute the download and import of all the files specified in the `table-specs` structure.


For checking the contents of the H2 DB, the integrated web console can be started directly from the REPL:

Starting:

```
> (start-console)
```

Stopping:

```
> (stop-console)
```

Commit message:

Selective import of data sets

README.md, after:

geonames-h2
===========

Build a H2 database with the GeoNames data.

## General

The source data can be downloaded from the [GeoNames] (http://download.geonames.org/export/dump/) web site as zipped CSV files.
The fetched data is unzipped and the text files stored in the `./download` directory. The H2 database is created under the local directory `./db`.
The data structure `geonames-h2.tables/table-specs` is a map with the processed data files and the information for creating the database table
for storing the data. Table indexes are also created for more efficient querying.


## Usage

The import can simply be started from the REPL with following steps:

```
> lein repl
> in-ns 'geonames-h2.core
> (create-geonames-db)
```

This will execute the download and import of all the files specified in the `table-specs` structure.

Because processing of all configured data files takes quite some time (on my machine hours...), it is possible to selectively import specific tables
of the existing configuration. For this `create-geonames-db` can be called by passing the table keywords of the corresponding configuration maps. <br/>
Valid keywords are: `:geonames, :alternateNames, :hierarchy, :cities5000, :cities1000, :cities15000, :admin2Codes, :admin1CodesAscii`.

Example for importing only the _cities1000_ and _admin2Codes_ data:

```
> (create-geonames-db :cities1000 :admin2Codes)
```


For checking the contents of the H2 DB, the integrated web console can be started directly from the REPL:

Starting:

```
> (start-console)
```

Stopping:

```
> (stop-console)
```
